# Semantic Role Labeling and Coreference Resolution Project

This project processes text data using Semantic Role Labeling (SRL) and Coreference Resolution models to extract and analyze relationships between entities and their actions. It also integrates EPA (Evaluation-Potency-Activity) data to evaluate the extracted verbs and their associated roles.


### Key Files and Directories

- **`generate_srl_output.ipynb`**: A Jupyter Notebook that generates triples of agent - action - patient for one protagonist taking an unstructured text as input. 
- **`check_value_overlap.ipynb`**: A Jupyter Notebook that looks up SRL output in EPA data to get the EPA values for the agent - action - patient triples. It also visualizes the EPA values for matched verbs.
- **`srl_output_sara_little_proncess.csv`**: This is the output file generated by generate_srl_output.ipynb. You should be able to generate that yourself, but it is in here just to be safe.
- **`imputed_sara_little_princess.csv`**: Contains the imputed values for the agent - action - patient triples extracted from the little princess text. The code used for the imputation is in weird-project-main. 
- **`output_dir/`**: Directory for storing output files and intermediate results. This is not uploaded on git, you have to make it yourself.
- **`data/`**: input texts and table containing EPA values
- **`deprecated/`**: old approaches, only in here to keep track of what else I tried

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd <repository-directory>

2. Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt 
You will also have to install BookNLP

3. Ensure the required models are present in the project directory. They are not on git because they are to big. You can download the SRL model here: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kK6QdkBfmD8YkTuKivdGXMGLkC1MFg1x/view?usp=sharing 

4. Download the en_core_web_sm model for spaCy:
    ```bash
    python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm

## Dependencies
Python 3.10
Libraries:
- pandas
- matplotlib
- spacy
- allennlp


